## Expose Application

The Python web application has now been built and deployed. At this point
though it isn't yet accessible. This is because the steps used to create it
from the command line did not expose it automatically outside of the
OpenShift environment.

In order to expose the application externally as a HTTP service, it is
necessary to create a route which maps a public URL to the application.

This is done as a separate step as you don't always want an application to
be automatically available. You may for example be deploying microservices
which should only be visible to the front end web application running in
the same environment.

### Using the web console

The creation of a route and making the application visible outside of the
OpenShift environment can be done from the command line or the web console.
This time we will use the web console. You can also use this time to
explore what information is available about the application from the web
console.

In your web browser where you previously logged into the web console,
return to the project overview page of the project you created, or go
to the URL:

[source,role=copypaste]
----
https://{{CONSOLE_ADDRESS}}/console/project/project-userXX/overview
----

After having added the application to the project, you should now see in
the project overview page:

image::project-overview-blog-sqlite.png[Blog Site (SQLite)]

From here you access various details of the application you created, or
using options in the left hand side bar, browse to details on specific
resources that have been created in the project. You can also access build
logs for the application, as well as logs for the running application.

To view log files, select on **Applications** and then **Pods** from the
left hand side bar.

image::project-application-pods.png[Browse Application Pods]

The list of running instances of your application, as well as completed
builds will be listed.

Click on the entry for the instance of the running application and select
the **Logs** tab to see the logs for the application.

image::project-application-logs.png[Application Log]

Select on the **Terminal** tab for an instance of the running application
and you can access the running container from an interactive command shell.

image::project-application-shell.png[Interactive Shell]

### Creating a route


### Using the application
