## Source-to-Image

OpenShift provides different options for building and deploying application
containers. These include:

- *Build and deploy from application source code* - Users can specify
  the location of their application source code in a Git repository.
  OpenShift will build the application using steps appropriate for the
  programming language and software stack being used, then build a
  container image that includes the application and deploys it. Users can
  instead supply a `Dockerfile` as the source for instructions to build the
  container image. OpenShift will build the container image from the
  `Dockerfile`, within OpenShift, and deploy it.

- *Build and deploy from application binaries* - Users can specify
  the location of their application binaries, generated from their existing
  application build process and tools. OpenShift will build the container
  image that includes the supplied application binaries and deploy it.

- *Deploy an existing container image* - Users can build the application
  and container image completely outside of OpenShift, using existing
  application and container image build processes and tools, or use an
  existing container image supplied by a third party. OpenShift will pull
  down the nominated image and deploy it.

When you deployed the Python web application in the last exercise,
OpenShift pulled down the application source code from a Git repository
hosted by GitHub. This process of building the container image from the
application source code is facilitated using a tool provided by the
https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image[Source-to-Image (S2I)]
project.

The S2I project is described as:

"Source-to-Image (S2I) is a toolkit and workflow for building reproducible
Docker images from source code. S2I produces ready-to-run images by
injecting source code into a Docker container and letting the container
prepare that source code for execution. By creating self-assembling builder
images, you can version and control your build environments exactly like
you use Docker images to version your runtime environments."

Visually the process can be depicted as:

image::source-to-image.png[Source-to-Image]

OpenShift provides S2I builder images for a range of programming languages
and environments, including support for Java, NodeJS, PHP, Python and Ruby.

The operation of the S2I builder is split into two phases. These are the
_assemble_ and _run_ phases.

The assemble phase covers actions run by a S2I builder when preparing a
container image for deployment. In the case of the Python S2I builder,
during the assemble phase it will detect the presence of a
`requirements.txt` file in the application source code and install using
`pip` any Python packages required by the application which are listed.

The run phase covers actions run when the container image is deployed and
the application is to be started. In the case of the Python S2I builder it
will look at the application source code and determine how the web
application should be started. A simplified version of the algorithm it
uses, covering common cases, is as follows:

1. If a program file named `app.sh` exists in the top level directory of
the application source code, it will be executed to start the application.
You can run from `app.sh` any application, so long as it accepts inbound
HTTP connections on port 8080.

2. If a Python code file named `app.py` exists in the top level directory
of the application source code, it will be executed as a Python script. You
can run from `app.py` any Python web server or application framework, so
long as it accepts inbound HTTP connections on port 8080.

3. If the `gunicorn` package has been installed via the `requirements.txt`
file, and a `wsgi.py` file is located in the top level directory of the
source code repository, the Gunicorn WSGI server will be used to host the
WSGI application. The name of the WSGI application entry point callable
contained in the `wsgi.py` file should be called `application`.

4. If the `Django` package has been installed via the `requirements.txt`
and a `manage.py` file is located in the top level directory of the source
code repository, it will be assumed that a Django based application is
being used. For this case the Django application will be started using the
Django development server. As the Django development server is not suitable
for production use, this method should though only be relied on for initial
setup or testing.

For the web application used in this workshop, it supplied an `app.sh` file
which in turn ran `mod_wsgi-express`.

A full discussion of S2I is beyond the scope of this workshop, but you can
find more information about it in the
https://docs.openshift.org/latest/creating_images/s2i.html[OpenShift S2I documentation]
or the
https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image[S2I project repository].

The key concept to understand about S2I is that it takes your application
source code and creates from it a container image which can then be
deployed, without you needing to know the specifics of how to construct the
image.

S2I can be compared to cartridges from OpenShift 2 (prior version of
OpenShift), or buildpacks from Heroku and Cloud Foundry. The difference
compared to older systems such as buildpacks, is that S2I has been purpose
built for creating container images using Docker and OCI image formats.
